(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(NARRATOR READS)
"Mama Binturong."
(BESHTE CHUCKLING)
(LAUGHING)
Looks like Beshte's
made another friend.
Everywhere we go.
So Tenuk, there a lot
of good plants to eat
in this forest?
Ah, the best!
Fruits, berries, leaves.
You name it.
How are the bugs?
Uh, couldn't tell ya.
Tapirs don't eat bugs.
Common knowledge, really.
You don't know
what you're missing.
Gonna be
in these parts long?
I'd love to introduce you
to my friends.
Hey, guys,
say hi to my
new friend, Beshte.
BOTH: Hi, Beshte!
Gee.
Folks sure are friendly here.
Yeah. And you're welcome
to stay here
as long as you like.
ANGA: Yeah, well,
we're just
passing through,
right, Kion?
Right.
Okay. Well, if there's
anything you need
while you're here,
just let me know.
And I mean, anything.
Oh, we can always use
more Tuliza.
(STUTTERS) T-T-Tuliza!
(YELLS) I take it back!
Go away! Leave me alone!
(LEAVES RUSTLING)
Was it something I said?
Good gracious!
What's going on?
What did you do to Tenuk?
Nothing. We didn't mean
to scare him. Honest.
Yeah. I guess,
he just doesn't
like Tuliza.
BOTH: Tuliza!
(BOTH SCREAMING)
Wee-ird.
What's going on
around here?
Yeah. Everybody's
running away from Makini
whenever she says Tuliza.
(BIRD SQUAWKS)
Ah, Tuliza! Ahhh!
I don't think
it's about Makini.
Beshte's right.
It's something
about Tuliza.
Tuliza?
FULI: Maybe they're scared
of Tuliza?
Scared? Of a flower?
Well, they're sure scared
of something.
Oh, ho, ho, I gotta tell Mama.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(PANTING)
Oops!
Hey, watch
where you're going.
Let me through.
I gotta talk to Mama.
Oh, Mama!
Mama! Mama!
(SNIFFS AND SIGHS)
Yes, dear. What is it?
There's a bunch of strange
animals in the forest
and they're talking
about Tuliza.
Tuliza, you say?
The most wonderful,
beautiful,
delicious flower there is.
Do these strangers have some?
Or, do they want some?
(WHIMPERS)
I don't know, Mama.
Well, if they want some,
they can't have it.
And if they have some,
then I want it.
(SWALLOWS)
And we all know why, don't we?
Because the Tuliza is all...
(SINISTERLY) mine!
(LAUGHING MANIACALLY)
ALL: Yes, Mama.
You're all such good boys.
ALL: Thank you, Mama.
And you all know your place.
That's right.
You're the boss!
Yes. Mama's the boss.
And nobody messes with me...
Or my Tuliza!
♪ You best not mess
with Mama
♪ 'Cause Mama's always right
♪ And if you mess with Mama
You're gonna lose that fight
♪ Now Mama loves her boys
They know that she knows best
♪ When you're on Mama's
good side
♪ She'll take care
of all the rest
♪ No, yeah, you best not
mess with Mama
♪ You'll find out if you do
♪ A whole mess of trouble
♪ Will come raining
down on you
♪ And if you mess
with my Tuliza
♪ Well, you know
that's just as bad
♪ There's nothing else
you can do
♪ That makes Mama more mad
♪ My Tuliza's so delicious
♪ A delectable delight
♪ So keep your paws off it
or you're gonna get a fright
♪ Don't even say its name
♪ 'Cause every flower's mine
♪ Unless you wanna
meet the quills of
a loyal porcupine
♪ Oh, yeah, you best not
mess with Mama
♪ You'll find out of you do
♪ A whole mess of trouble
will come raining down on you
♪ And if you mess
with my Tuliza
♪ You know that's just as bad
♪ There's nothing else
you can do
♪ That makes Mama more mad
♪ Now you know Mama's
always right
♪ Right
♪ And she's got quite
an appetite
♪ Tite
♪ So you boys are gonna feed
♪ Feed
♪ Her insatiable Tuliza need
♪ You best not mess
with Mama
♪ You'll find out if you do
♪ A whole mess of trouble
♪ Will come raining
down on you
♪ And if you mess
with my Tuliza
♪ Well, you know
that's just as bad
♪ There's nothing else
you can do
♪ That makes Mama more mad
♪ You best not mess
with Mama
♪ Oh, you best not mess
♪ You best not mess ♪
(MAMA VOCALIZING)
Now, let's find out what
these strangers want
with my Tuliza.
(HUMMING) Ooh, ah.
(CHEWING AND SWALLOWING)
Oh, guys, guys,
guys, guys, watch this.
(CHEWS)
Tuliza!
(YELLS)
Did I surprise him!
Whoa!
(GRUNTING)
Uh-oh.
(YELLS)
(WHIMPERS)
BESHTE: Oh, no,
he fell into a river.
Bunga!
I got him.
(WHIMPERING) Help!
Anga lenga!
Let me go!
(SCREAMING) Help!
You're welcome.
Please, let me go!
ANGA: There.
Sorry about that.
So, little civet,
why is everyone here
so afraid of Tuliza?
Tuliza!
(SCREAMING)
Like I said, "Wee-ird."
(GRUNTS)
What did you tell
those strangers?
Nothing.
(SCOFFS) We heard you
say Tuliza.
(SHEEPISHLY)
I just said the word.
MAMA: When will
you civets learn?
It's not nice to fool
Mama Binturong.
Mama Binturong,
I promise,
I didn't tell them anything
about your Tuliza.
Then why are they talking
to you about Tuliza?
I don't know.
I don't know!
(QUILLS EMERGE)
KION: No more
joking around,
okay, Bunga?
We don't have time for jokes.
We gotta keep going.
Mama, the strangers!
Let him go. I want
to see these strangers
for myself.
(GRUNTS)
Makini.
Oh, right.
Have some Tuliza, Kion.
(SIGHS) Tuliza!
Porcupines,
get me that staff.
ALL: Yes, Mama.
We don't have much,
but you can have a little.
Okay.
(CHEWS AND SWALLOWS)
(SLURPS AND LICKS LIPS)
Tuliza!
Better?
Yeah. Thanks, Makini.
Okay, now, let's go.
Uh, Makini.
Forget something?
No. I don't think so.
I... (GASPS) My staff!
Thanks, Fuli.
I was sure
I put it on this log.
Where could it be?
(SNIFFS)
Hmm, Tuliza! (SOFT CHUCKLE)
(CHEWING)
Good boys.
(SNIFFS)
Now, back to the hideout.
You're sure you put it
on the log?
Yes. It was right here.
Guys, look, tracks.
Porcupine tracks.
The tracks end here.
(SNIFFING)
And I can't smell
anything but Bunga.
You're welcome.
You really think
some porcupine stole
Makini's staff?
Maybe.
Anga, see if you can
spot porcupines
with Makini's staff.
Yup.
Oh, I'm so sorry, Kion.
My staff had
the rest of our Tuliza.
And nobody here
will help us find Tuliza.
It's okay, Maki...
But what if you
need some more?
And my staff makes
the  moja kwa moja paintings
come to life, too.
Makini, it's not your...
But I think the only place
I can find a new bakora staff
is in the Pride Lands.
(GASPS) We'll never find
the Tree of Life now.
Makini,  shwari.
Oh, yeah. Thanks, Beshte.
(SIGHS)  Shwari.
What'd I miss?
Nothing much.
Any sign
of the staff thieves?
Nope. Too many trees
and plants to see much
of anything from the sky.
What do you think, Fuli?
Uh, well, we do need
Makini's staff to find
our way to the Tree of Life.
We could ask the animals
who live here.
Maybe they know
who took it.
You mean, the animals
that run away every time
we talk to them?
Only when we mention Tuliza.
They might help us find
a missing staff.
Good idea, Beshte.
Let's go ask around.
Maybe this guy can help us.
Hey, there, Mr. Gibbon.
Oh, uh, hello, again.
My friend Makini
lost her staff.
Maybe you've seen it?
A staff? What's that?
It's a stick, with a couple
of gourds hanging on it.
Uh, why would somebody
hang gourds on a stick?
That's where we keep
our Tuliza.
Tuliza!
(YELLS)
Bunga.
Don't worry, I got this.
Zuka Zama.
Hey, gibbon,
I didn't mean
to say Tuliza.
It's not about
the Tuliza.
GIBBON: No, no, no.
No, no, no, no no!
Forget I said "Tuliza."
(YELLS)
FULI: Bunga!
ALL: Stop saying Tuliza.
Guys, you're not supposed
to say Tuliza, remember?
Oops, I said Tuliza.
Oops, I said it again.
Go away!
Forget the other thing
I said. We're just
looking for the stick.
Look...
(YELLS)
We just want to talk.
Fine. You got me.
But I don't know anything
about anything.
You, uh... You should talk
to the mongoose.
BOTH: The mongoose?
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYS)
This is where he said
the mongoose lives.
Who said that?
Who says I live here?
A gibbon said
you could help us.
We're looking for
a missing staff.
Not me. I can't help ya.
But I know a guy who might.
A... A civet.
He'll talk to you.
The mongoose sent me.
(YELLS) Not you again!
Easy, little fella.
We just want to talk to you
about a lost, uh, stick.
Lost stick? Hmm.
I know a guy, a mouse deer.
A mouse?
Why'd you call me dear?
No, a mouse deer.
He's the guy
you should talk you.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
MOUSE DEER:
You need answers?
I got answers.
Oh! I get it now.
A mouse deer.
It's not polite
to point.
The guy you need to talk
to about the stick,
lives in that cave,
right over there.
Great. Thanks.
Hey, you!
We see you there.
Are you the guy who knows
who took our staff?
Uh, yeah, that's me.
ALL: You!
Why didn't you just
talk to us before?
'Cause this is
the only place I know
that her porcupines
aren't listening.
I don't want her to know
I'm helping you.
"Her"? Her, who?
(SOFTLY)
Mama Binturong.
Mama been there what?
She controls all the...
(WHISPERING) Tuliza
in this forest.
So that's why
everyone's scared
when we mention Tuliza.
Yes. Everyone's scared
of Mama Binturong.
She's so mean, nobody even
wants to say Tuliza,
in case it makes her mad.
She's very mean
when she's mad.
Yeah, if she catches anyone
with Tuliza,
she sends her porcupines
after them.
That explains
the porcupine tracks.
And why they took my staff!
There was still Tuliza
in the gourd.
So how do we find
this Mama Binturong?
Her hideout is deep
in the Stone Forest.
But, uh, you'll never
reach it.
Why's that?
The Stone Forest
is almost impossible
to get through.
Only Mama and her porcupines
can get through it safely.
Well, we're the Lion Guard.
(SCOFFS) We can do anything.
FULI: Okay,
maybe not anything.
What do you think, Kion?
I think we have to get
through these.
(GRUNTS) Careful,
these rocks are sharp.
Maybe Beshte can get through.
Hippos have very thick skin.
Common knowledge, really.
(SCOFFS) I'd be lucky
if I could get a toe
between those rocks.
Hapana,
they are close together.
I don't know
if I would fit.
Anga, maybe you can
get through from above?
I'll see.
(GRUNTS)
Nope. Not gonna fit.
Hmm, Tuliza.
Lots of Tuliza.
I can't get through the rocks.
But, I'm pretty sure I found
Mama Binturong's hideout.
That'd be good news
if anybody could get to it.
So, we need someone
who's not bothered
by sharp rocks
or porcupine quills,
and can carry
Makini's staff
back here.
There's only one choice!
(GRUNTS EXCITEDLY)
Oh, that feels good.
Oh, yeah, that's the spot.
You think
he can handle it?
Of course, he can.
Right, Bunga?
Uh-huh.
Of course, I can do it.
Uh, do what?
(SIGHS) Go through
the Stone Forest
to Mama Binturong's
hideout,
and get Makini's staff back,
all by yourself.
Yes! You're right.
I could totally do it.
Show me the way.
Straight through there.
You'll see Mama's hideout
when you get close.
There's lot of Tuliza.
Go straight,
look for Tuliza.
Got it!
Zuka Zama!
Good luck, Bunga.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(GRUNTING)
(LAUGHING)
Whoa!
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
(GRUNTS)
Yeah!
Hmm, which way do I go?
(ECHOING)  Which way do I go?
Which way do I go?
Don't ask me.
(ECHOING)  Don't ask me.
Hey, that's my voice.
(ECHOING)
Zuka Zama.
Zuka Zama. Zuka Zama.
Bunga, shh!
(ECHOING)  Bunga, shh.
Bunga, shh.
Okay.
(ECHOING)  Okay.
(GRUNTS) Yup! Whoa!
A-ha. Tuliza.
That's gotta be
Mama's hideout.
(SIGHS) That's a long
way down.
This is gonna be fun!
Zuka Zama!
(GRUNTING)
(CHUCKLES) Perfect landing.
All right, porky-orcupines,
let's do this!
Huh? Where is everybody?
Hello, I'm here.
Anybody home?
Hey-hey! Look at that.
This is gonna be easier
than I thought.
MAMA:
Welcome, Mr. Bunga.
We've been expecting you.
Uh? Who said that?
I did.
A-ha! You're Mama Binturong.
That's right.
Hey, wait,
how'd you know my name?
It's been echoing all over
the Stone Forest.
Oh, yep.
All right, Mama,
just give me
that staff back.
Or, we'll have trouble.
I have a better idea.
Why don't you go back
where you came from,
and I keep the staff.
Why would I do that?
Because around here,
everyone does what Mama says.
Well, I'm not
from around here!
So we can do this
the easy way,
or we can do it
the hard way.
I choose the hard way.
Or the sharp way.
Porcupines!
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
Go on, boys,
you know what to do.
What is this?
Oh, I expect you'll soon see
my point, Mr. Bunga.
(QUILLS EMERGING)
Hah! You expect me
to be scared of this, Mama.
No, Mr. Bunga, I expect you
to be poked!
(LAUGHING MANIACALLY)
(CHUCKLING) That tickles.
Zuka Zama.
(ALL GRUNT)
(LAUGHS)
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
Zuka Zama!
(THUDDING)
(ALL GROANING)
You're gonna need more
than porcupines to beat me!
Now, hand over that staff!
Come and get it.
All right,
you asked for it.
(GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
Made it! Whoo!
(PANTS) Just give me a second.
I don't think so.
(YELLS)
Oh, no, you don't!
I'm here to get
my friend's staff...
(GRUNTS) and I'm not...
(GRUNTS) leaving...
(GRUNTS) without it.
Now, give me that staff!
Never!
(LAUGHS)
(GRUNTS)
Okay, fine.
If you're not gonna give me
the staff, I'm gonna eat
all your Tuliza.
Don't you dare touch
my beautiful Tuliza.
(MUNCHING)
(GROWLS)
(SWALLOWS) Ugh, this is gross.
I don't now how Kion does it.
No!
Get your filthy paws
off my Tuliza!
(LAUGHING)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(BUNGA YELLS)
(LAUGHS)
Silly honey badger,
did you really think
you could get away
with eating my Tuliza?
Silly Binturong,
missing something?
Oh! You might
have the staff,
but you're not going anywhere.
Pfft! You guys, again!
You see, Mr. Bunga,
there's no way out.
(LAUGHING)
That's what you think.
(BREAKS WIND)
(COUGHING)
Think I'll take
some Tuliza to go.
(ALL COUGHING)
You lose,
Mama Binturong!
(TRIUMPHANT MUSIC)
Un-Bunga-lievable.
(COUGHS) Which way did he...
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYS)
(PETALS RUSTLING)
(SCREAMS)
My Tuliza!
It's ruined!
(WHIMPERS)
Don't fret, Mama.
We'll get you
more Tuliza.
No! I'm through
with Tuliza
and this whole forest!
There's just one thing
I want now.
I want to get that Bunga!
The forest won't be
the same without her.
Somebody lose a staff?
(GASPS)
You got it!
Yay!
Ad you filled it
with Tuliza.
That's right!
(SNIFFS) Ew!
Great job, Bunga.
Now let's go find
that next  moja kwa moja stone.
You'll never guess
how I got away.
(SOFT CHUCKLE) You used
your stink, right?
You know my secret weapon?
FULI: Not that big
a secret, Bunga.
(ALL LAUGHING)